 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

##TABLE_END

Corporate Background

Our Company was founded in 1981 and is incorporated in Delaware. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the ticker symbol &#8220;ABMD.&#8221; 

Our principal executive offices are located at 22 Cherry Hill Drive, Danvers, Massachusetts 01923. Our telephone number is (978) 646-1400. We make available, free of charge on our website located at www.abiomed.com, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such reports with or furnishing such reports to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. We also use our website for the distribution of Company information. The information we post on our website may be deemed to be material information. Accordingly, investors should monitor our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this Report. 

Our Company

We are a leading provider of medical devices that provide circulatory support and oxygenation. Our products are designed to enable the heart to rest by improving blood flow and/or provide sufficient oxygenation to those in respiratory failure. We develop, manufacture and market proprietary products that are designed to enable the heart to rest, heal and recover by improving blood flow to the coronary arteries and end-organs and/or temporarily assisting the pumping function of the heart. Our products are used in the cardiac catheterization lab, or cath lab, by interventional cardiologists, the electrophysiology lab, the hybrid lab and in the heart surgery suite by cardiac surgeons. A physician may use our devices for patients who are in need of hemodynamic support prophylactically, urgently or emergently before, during or after angioplasty or heart surgery procedures. We believe that heart recovery is the optimal clinical outcome for a patient experiencing heart failure because it enhances the potential for the patient to go home with their own heart, facilitating the restoration of quality of life. In addition, we believe that, for the care of such patients, heart recovery is often the most cost-effective solution for the healthcare system.

Our strategic focus and the driver of our revenue growth is the market penetration of our family of Impella&#174; heart pumps. The Impella device portfolio, which includes the Impella 2.5&#174;, Impella CP&#174;, Impella 5.0&#174;, Impella LD&#174;, Impella 5.5&#174; and Impella RP&#174; devices, has supported thousands of patients worldwide. We expect that most of our product and service revenue in the near future will be from our Impella devices. Our Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0, Impella LD, Impella 5.5 and Impella RP devices have U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and CE Mark approvals which allows us to market these devices in the U.S. and European Union, respectively. We expect to continue to make additional pre-market approval, or PMA, supplement submissions for our Impella portfolio of devices for additional indications. Our Impella 2.5, Impella CP and Impella 5.0 devices have regulatory approval from the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, or MHLW, in Japan. In October 2020, we also received a 510(k) clearance for the Abiomed Breethe OXY-1 System (the &#8220;OXY-1 System&#8221;) from the FDA for an all-in-one, compact cardiopulmonary bypass system.

COVID-19 Pandemic

For a discussion of the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our business, see &#8220;Part II, Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;COVID-19 Pandemic.&#8221;

Our Existing Products

Impella 2.5 &#174; 

The Impella 2.5 device is a percutaneous micro heart pump with an integrated motor and sensors. The device is designed primarily for use by interventional cardiologists to support patients in the cath lab who may require assistance to maintain circulation. The Impella 2.5 heart pump can be quickly inserted via the femoral artery to reach the left ventricle of the heart, where it is directly deployed to draw blood out of the ventricle and deliver it to the circulatory system. This function is intended to reduce ventricular work and provide blood flow to vital organs. The Impella 2.5 heart pump is introduced with normal interventional cardiology procedures and can pump up to 2.5 liters of blood per minute.

Our Impella 2.5 device has FDA, CE Mark and MHLW approvals which allows us to market these devices in the U.S., European Union and Japan, respectively. We expect to continue to make additional PMA supplement submissions for our Impella portfolio of devices for additional indications. Our Impella 2.5, Impella CP and Impella 5.0 devices have regulatory approval from the MHLW in Japan. The Impella 2.5 device also has Health Canada approval which allows us to market the device in Canada. 

&#160;

Impella CP &#174; 

The Impella CP device provides blood flow of approximately one liter more per minute than the Impella 2.5 device and is primarily used by either interventional cardiologists to support patients in the cath lab or by cardiac surgeons in the heart surgery suite.

Our Impella CP devices has FDA and CE Mark approval which allows us to market this device in the U.S. and European Union. We expect to continue to make additional PMA supplement submissions for our Impella portfolio of devices for additional indications of Impella CP in the U.S. In March 2019, we received Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency (&#8220;PMDA&#8221;) approval from the MHLW for our Impella CP heart pump in Japan. We began selling the Impella CP heart pump in Japan in fiscal year 2020.

Impella 5.0&#174; and Impella LD&#174;

The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices are percutaneous micro heart pumps with integrated motors and sensors for use primarily in the heart surgery suite. These devices are designed to support patients who require higher levels of circulatory support as compared to the Impella 2.5 or Impella CP. 

Our Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices have FDA and CE Mark approval which allows us to market these devices in the U.S. and European Union. We expect to continue to make additional PMA supplement submissions for our Impella portfolio of devices for additional indications. Our Impella 5.0 devices have regulatory approval from the MHLW in Japan and Health Canada regulatory approval in Canada. 

Impella 5.5 &#174; 

The Impella 5.5 device is designed to be a percutaneous micro heart pump with integrated motors and sensors. The Impella 5.5 delivers peak flows of greater than six liters per minute. The Impella 5.5 has a motor housing that is thinner and 45% shorter than the Impella 5.0 and it improves ease of pump insertion through the vasculature.

In September 2019, the Impella 5.5 device received a PMA from the FDA for safety and efficacy in the therapy of cardiogenic shock for up to 14 days in the U.S. The Impella 5.5 pump was introduced in the U.S. through a controlled rollout at hospitals with established heart recovery protocols beginning in fiscal year 2020. The Impella 5.5 device received CE Mark approval in Europe in April 2018 is being introduced in Europe through a similar controlled rollout. We are also targeting a submission of the Impella 5.5 device to the PMDA in Japan in fiscal year 2022. The adoption of the Impella 5.5 device has decreased the utilization of Impella 5.0 and Impella LD at certain sites.

Impella RP&#174;

The Impella RP device is a percutaneous catheter-based axial flow pump that is designed to allow greater than four liters of blood flow per minute and is intended to provide the flow and pressure needed to compensate for right side heart failure. Our Impella RP device has FDA and CE Mark approval which allows us to market these devices in the U.S. and European Union. The Impella RP is the first percutaneous single access heart pump designed for right heart support to receive FDA approval. The Impella RP device is approved to provide support of the right heart during times of acute failure for certain patients who have received a left ventricle assist device or have suffered heart failure due to AMI, a failed heart transplant, or following open heart surgery. We expect to continue to make additional PMA supplement submissions for our Impella portfolio of devices for additional indications. 

Impella SmartAssist&#174;

The Impella SmartAssist platform includes optical sensor technology for improved pump positioning and the use of algorithms that enable improved native heart assessment during the weaning process. The Impella SmartAssist platform is currently available for our Impella CP and Impella 5.5 heart pumps. The Impella SmartAssist platform is also approved under CE Mark in the European Union and other countries that require a CE Mark approval. 

Impella Connect&#174;

Impella Connect is a cloud-based technology that enables secure, remote viewing of the Automated Impella Controller, or AIC, for physicians and hospital staff from anywhere with internet connectivity. We began a controlled roll-out of Impella Connect at certain hospital sites during fiscal year 2020 and transitioned most of our higher volume customers during fiscal year 2021.

&#160;

OXY-1 System 

The OXY-1 System is a portable external respiratory assistance device that we acquired as part of our acquisition of Breethe, Inc. (&#8220;Breethe&#8221;), in April 2020 as part of our efforts to expand our product portfolio to support the needs of patients, such as those suffering from cardiogenic shock or respiratory failure, whose lungs can no longer provide sufficient oxygenation. The OXY-1 System takes venous blood from the patient, removes carbon dioxide and adds oxygen much like a human lung, and returns the oxygenated blood safely back to the patient. In October 2020, the OXY-1 System received a 510(k) clearance from the FDA for an all-in-one, compact cardiopulmonary bypass system. In the third quarter of fiscal year 2021, we initiated a controlled launch of the OXY-1 System at a limited number of hospitals in the U.S, that we expect to continue in fiscal year 2022.

Our Product Pipeline

Impella ECP&#8482;

The Impella ECP device is designed for blood flow of greater than three liters per minute. It is intended to be delivered on a standard sized catheter and will include an expandable inflow in the left ventricle. The Impella ECP device has completed the first stage in its FDA early feasibility study (&#8220;EFS&#8221;) in December 2020 by enrolling and treating five patients. The prospective, multi-center, non-randomized EFS is designed to allow us, study investigators, and the FDA to make qualitative assessments about the safety and feasibility of Impella ECP use in high-risk percutaneous coronary intervention (&#8220;PCI&#8221;) patients. In January 2021, we received approval from the FDA to expand the EFS for the Impella ECP device based on their review of results from the first five patients. The Impella ECP device is still in development and has not been approved for commercial use or sale.

Impella XR Sheath&#8482;

The Impella XR Sheath is a low-profile sheath that expands and recoils, allowing for small bore access and closure with certain Impella heart pumps. It inserts at 10 French (Fr) and the flexible, nitinol braids momentarily expand during insertion, then recoil, simplifying access for complex interventions. The Impella XR sheath is intended to produce less trauma at the arterial access site compared to large bore sheaths. In December 2020, the Impella XR Sheath for our Impella 2.5 device received a 510(k) clearance from the FDA. We are currently developing an Impella XR Sheath for our Impella CP device and anticipate making an FDA submission in fiscal year 2022.

Impella BTR&#8482;

The Impella BTR device is designed to be a percutaneous micro heart pump with integrated motors and sensors. The Impella BTR device is designed to be smaller, provide up to one year of hemodynamic support and is expected to allow for greater than five liters of blood flow per minute. The Impella BTR device also includes a wearable driver designed for hospital discharge. The Impella BTR pump is still in development and has not been approved for commercial use or sale. 

Our Markets 

According to the Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics 2021 Update Report from the American Heart Association, or AHA, coronary heart disease, or CHD, is the number one cause of death in the U.S. According to the report, 47% of women and 36% of men over the age of 45 will die within five years of their first heart attack, and CHD causes approximately one of every seven deaths in the U.S. CHD is a condition of the coronary arteries that causes reduced blood flow and insufficient oxygen delivery to the affected portion of the heart. CHD leads to acute myocardial infarction, or AMI, commonly known as a heart attack, which may lead to heart failure, a condition in which the heart is unable to pump enough blood to the body&#8217;s major organs. 

A broad spectrum of therapies exists for the treatment of patients in early stages of CHD. Angioplasty procedures and stents are commonly used in the cath lab to restore and increase blood flow to the heart. These treatments are often successful in slowing the progression of heart disease, extending life, and/or improving the quality of life for some period of time. Patients presenting with acute cardiac injuries potentially have recoverable hearts. Treatment for these patients in pre-shock in the cath lab is primarily focused on hemodynamic stabilization. Acute heart failure patients in profound shock typically require treatment in the surgery suite. These are patients suffering from cardiogenic shock after a heart attack, post-cardiotomy cardiogenic shock or myocarditis complicated with cardiogenic shock. Chronic heart failure patients have hearts that are unlikely to be recoverable due to left and/or right-side heart failure and their conditions cause their hearts to fail over time. Limited therapies exist today for patients with severe, end-stage, or chronic heart failure. 

In more severe cases of heart failure, patients are sent directly to the surgery suite for coronary bypass or valve replacement surgery. The most severe acute heart failure patients are in profound cardiogenic shock, including those suffering from myocarditis (a viral attack of the heart), or from those suffering from an impaired ability of the heart to pump blood after a heart attack or heart surgery. These patients typically require treatments involving the use of mechanical circulatory support devices that provide increased blood flow and reduce the stress on the heart. Many less severe patients in the cath lab could also benefit from circulatory support devices or other clinical treatment, which could potentially prevent them from entering into profound shock. 

&#160;

Percutaneous assist devices, like the Impella portfolio of devices, are mechanical devices that help the failing heart pump blood or take over the pumping function of the failing heart. Percutaneous assist devices allow for less invasive placement and removal and can be done through a small puncture in the leg in the cath lab, electrophysiology lab, or operating room. We believe heart recovery is a preferred clinical outcome for patients, since it generally lowers the overall relative cost to the healthcare system versus alternative therapies and treatment paths that may require multiple surgeries, lengthy or repeated hospital stays, chronic therapeutic and immunosuppressant drugs and other related healthcare costs . 

Research and Product Development 

Since our founding in 1981, we have gained substantial expertise in circulatory support through the development of many product platforms to support heart patients. This includes our Impella platform that we currently market and other technologies that we have supported, and sold in the past, which we do not actively market currently. Our current strategy is to develop a complete portfolio of products across the continuum of care in heart recovery, primarily focused in the area of circulatory care. We intend to continue to use this experience to develop additional circulatory support products as well as making enhancements to our existing products, with an emphasis on improving access and closure with our devices. In addition, we have a number of new products at various stages of development, some of which integrate the Impella technology platform including the Impella ECP, Impella XR Sheath and Impella BTR devices. 

We expended $121.9 million, $98.8 million and $93.5 million on research and development in fiscal years 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our research and development expenditures include costs related to clinical trials and studies for our current and anticipated future products. 

We are pursuing additional randomized control trials in high-risk PCI and cardiogenic shock, such as the STEMI DTU Study and PROTECT IV Study, to complement our clinical evidence and best practices to optimize patient outcomes.

STEMI DTU&#8482; Study

In November 2018, we announced the results of our FDA-approved prospective multi-center feasibility study, &#8220;STEMI Door to Unloading with Impella CP system in acute myocardial infarction&#8221; (&#8220;STEMI DTU&#8221;). The study, which enrolled 50 patients at 10 sites, focused on the feasibility and safety of unloading the left ventricle using the Impella CP heart pump prior to primary PCI in patients presenting with ST segment elevation myocardial infarction, or STEMI, without cardiogenic shock, with the hypothesis that this will potentially reduce infarct size. The hypothesis of this novel approach to treating STEMI patients, based on extensive mechanistic research, is that unloading the left ventricle prior to PCI reduces myocardial workload and oxygen demand and also initiates a cardio-protective effect at the myocardial cell level, which may alleviate myocardial damage caused by reperfusion injury at the time of revascularization. The intent of this study was to help refine the protocol and lay the groundwork for a future pivotal study with more sites and patients and will be designed for statistical significance.

In April 2019, the FDA approved the initiation of the STEMI DTU pivotal randomized controlled trial. The prospective, multi-center, two-arm trial plans to enroll 668 patients undergoing treatment for a STEMI heart attack at up to 60 sites. Half the patients will be randomized to receive delayed reperfusion after 30 minutes of left ventricular unloading with the Impella CP. The other half will receive immediate reperfusion, the current standard of care. The STEMI DTU trial will test the hypothesis that unloading the left ventricle for 30 minutes prior to reperfusion will reduce myocardial damage from a heart attack and lead to a reduction in future heart failure related events. The trial allows for an adaptive design, which permits adjustments to the study sample size after an interim analysis. We began the trial in the third quarter of fiscal 2020 and we estimate that it will take three to four years to complete enrollment.

PROTECT IV Study

In April 2021, we announced that the first patient has been enrolled in PROTECT IV, a large, prospective, multi-center randomized controlled trial that is designed to provide the level of clinical evidence needed to achieve a Class I guideline recommendation for Impella in high-risk PCI. The two-arm trial will compare the benefits of high-risk PCI with Impella (primarily Impella CP) versus high-risk PCI without Impella support. The primary endpoint of the study is the composite of all-cause death, stroke, myocardial infarction or hospitalization for cardiovascular causes at a minimum of one year. The trial has an adaptive design. It aims to enroll 1,252 consecutive qualified patients at more than 100 hospital sites across the U.S. and Europe. The PROTECT IV trial will leverage advancements in technology and best practices learned since the completion of the PROTECT II randomized controlled trial and the FDA PMA for the Impella 2.5 heart pump for high-risk PCI. Data from PROTECT II found, when compared to intra-aortic balloon pump, Impella 2.5 led to a 29% reduction in MACCE, defined as composite of death, stroke, myocardial infarction and repeat procedures, at 90 days. PROTECT IV also builds on PROTECT III, a contemporary, prospective, single-arm FDA post-approval study of Impella 2.5 and Impella CP for high-risk PCI. 

&#160;

Sales, Clinical Support, Marketing and Field Service 

Our clinical support personnel consist primarily of registered nurses and other personnel with considerable experience in either the surgery suite or the cath lab, and they play a critical role in training and educating physicians in the use of our products. In recent years, we have significantly increased the number of our direct sales and clinical support personnel in the U.S, Germany and Japan.

Manufacturing 

We manufacture our products in Danvers, Massachusetts, Aachen, Germany and Halethorpe, Maryland. Our Aachen facility performs final assembly and manufactures most of our disposable Impella devices, including the Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0, Impella 5.5, Impella LD and Impella RP. Our Danvers facility also manufactures and performs final assembly for the Impella CP device, Impella 5.5, and certain Impella subsystems and accessories, including our Impella AIC, the console that powers our Impella devices. Our Halethorpe, Maryland facility manufactures the OXY-1 System. In addition, we rely on third-party suppliers to provide us with components used in our existing products and products under development. For example, we outsource some of the manufacturing for components and circuit cards within our consoles. 

We have expanded our manufacturing capacity in all our facilities to support demand for our products. We believe our existing manufacturing facilities provide sufficient physical capacity to meet anticipated demand for at least the next twelve months. Our U.S. and German manufacturing facilities are certified as being in compliance with standards established by the International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, and operate under the FDA&#8217;s good manufacturing practice requirements for medical devices set forth in the Quality System Regulation, or QSR. 

Intellectual Property 

We have developed, and our business depends on, significant know-how and proprietary technology. To protect our know-how and proprietary technology, we rely on trade secret laws, trademarks, patents, copyrights, and confidentiality agreements and other contracts. However, these methods afford only limited protection. Others may independently develop equivalent proprietary information or technology, gain access to our trade secrets or disclose or use such secrets or technology without our approval.

A substantial portion of our intellectual property rights relating to the Impella devices and other products under development, such as the Impella ECP, Impella XR Sheath and Impella BTR devices, are in the form of trade secrets and patents. We protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge in part through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other parties. We cannot assure you that our trade secrets will not become known to or be independently developed by our competitors. 

We own or have rights to numerous U.S. and foreign patents. Patents filed both in the U.S. and Europe generally have a life of 20 years from the filing date. Our U.S. and foreign patents have expiration dates ranging from 2020 to 2036 and beyond as we continue to innovate and file for new patent applications. We also own or have rights to certain pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We believe patents will issue pursuant to such applications, but cannot guarantee it. Moreover, neither the timing of any issuance, the scope of protection, nor the actual issue date of these pending applications can be forecasted with precision. Where we have licensed patent rights from third parties, we could be required to pay royalties. 

Our patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. Our pending or future patent applications may not be issued. Others may hold or obtain patents that cover aspects or uses of our innovations. The patents of others may render our patents obsolete, limit our ability to patent or practice our innovations, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business. Because foreign patents may afford less protection than U.S. patents, our foreign patent estate may not adequately protect our technology. 

The medical device industry is characterized by a large number of patents and by frequent and consequential intellectual property litigation. Our products and technologies could infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. If third parties successfully assert infringement or other claims against us, we may not be able to sell our products or we may have to pay significant damages and ongoing royalties. In addition, patent or intellectual property disputes or litigation may be costly, result in product development delays, or divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. If any such disputes or litigation arise, we may seek to enter into a royalty or licensing arrangement. However, such an arrangement may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We may decide, in the alternative, to litigate the claims or seek to design around the patented or otherwise protected proprietary technology, which may also be costly and time consuming. 

The U.S. government may obtain certain rights to use or disclose technical data developed under government contracts that supported the development of some of our products. We retain the right to obtain patents on any inventions developed under those contracts, provided we follow prescribed procedures and are subject to a non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free license to the U.S. government. 

&#160;

Competition

Competition among providers of treatments for the failing heart is intense and subject to rapid technological change and evolving industry requirements and standards. We compete with many companies that have greater financial, product development, sales and marketing resources and experience than we do. Furthermore, new product development and technological change characterize the areas in which we compete. Our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical as a result of technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including drug therapies. We must continue to develop and commercialize new products and technologies to remain competitive in the cardiovascular medical technology industry. We believe that we compete primarily on the basis of clinical superiority supported by extensive data, and innovative features that enhance patient benefit, product performance, ease of use and reliability. Customer and clinical support, and data that demonstrate both improvement in a patient's quality of life and a product's cost-effectiveness are additional aspects of competition.

The cardiovascular segment of the medical technology industry is dynamic and subject to significant change due to cost-of-care considerations, regulatory reform, industry and customer consolidation and evolving patient needs. The ability to provide products and technologies that demonstrate value and improve clinical outcomes is becoming increasingly important for medical technology manufacturers.

We are aware of other cardiac assist device research efforts in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Japan. In addition, there are a number of companies, including Abbott Laboratories, Medtronic, Edwards Lifesciences, Boston Scientific, LivaNova, Terumo Heart, Teleflex, Getinge (Maquet Cardiovascular) and several early-stage companies, that are developing medical devices that provide circulatory support and oxygenation, including implantable left ventricular assist devices, miniaturized rotary ventricular assist devices and cardiopulmonary bypass devices that directly and indirectly compete with our products.

Third-Party Reimbursement 

Our products and services are generally purchased by hospitals that rely on third-party payers to cover and reimburse the costs of related patient care. In the U.S., as well as in many foreign countries, government-funded or private insurance programs pay the cost of a significant portion of a patient&#8217;s medical expenses. No uniform policy of coverage or reimbursement for medical technology exists among all these payers. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement can differ significantly from payer to payer and by jurisdiction. 

Third-party payers may include government healthcare programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, private insurers or managed care organizations. The Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services (&#8220;CMS&#8221;) is responsible for administering the Medicare program in the U.S. and, along with its contractors, establishes coverage and reimbursement policies for the Medicare program. Medicare&#8217;s coverage and reimbursement policies are particularly significant to our business because a large percentage of the population for which our products are intended includes individuals who are Medicare beneficiaries. In addition, private payers often follow the coverage and reimbursement policies of Medicare. We cannot assure that government or private third-party payers will continue to cover and reimburse the procedures using our products in whole or in part in the future or that payment rates for reimbursement will be adequate. If governmental and private payers&#8217; policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business.

Medicare payment may be made, in appropriate cases, for procedures performed in the in-patient hospital setting using our technology. Medicare generally reimburses hospitals in which the procedures are performed based upon prospectively determined amounts. For hospital in-patient stays, the prospective payment generally is determined by the patient&#8217;s condition and other patient data and procedures performed during the in-patient stay, using a classification system known as International Classification of Diseases, or ICD, and medical severity diagnosis-related groups, or MS DRGs. Prospective rates are adjusted for, among other things, regional differences, co-morbidity and complications. Hospitals performing in-patient procedures using our devices generally do not receive separate Medicare reimbursement for the specific costs of purchasing or implanting our products. Rather, reimbursement for these costs is bundled with the MS DRG-based payments made to hospitals for the procedures during which our devices are implanted, removed, or replaced. Because prospective payments are based on predetermined rates and may be less than a hospital&#8217;s actual costs in furnishing care, hospitals have incentives to lower their in-patient operating costs by utilizing products, devices and supplies that will reduce the length of in-patient stays, decrease labor or otherwise lower their costs. Thus, hospitals may decide not to use our products if reimbursement amounts are insufficient to cover any additional costs incurred when purchasing our products.

Coverage and reimbursement for procedures to implant, remove or replace our products are generally established in the U.S. market. For instance, Medicare covers the use of LVADs when used for support of blood circulation post-cardiotomy, as a temporary life-support system until a human heart becomes available for transplant, or as destination therapy for patients who require permanent mechanical cardiac support, when the use is consistent with FDA approval and FDA-approved labeling instructions, as applicable. Coverage and reimbursement for procedures to implant the Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0, Impella LD, Impella 5.5 and Impella RP devices are also established for in-hospital use by Medicare including ICD-10 for procedures and MS DRG coding. Actual coverage and payment may vary by local Medicare fiscal intermediary or third-party insurer. Our Impella devices are also covered by commercial and/or Medicare plans of many third-party insurers including Aetna, Humana, Cigna, Blue Cross Blue Shield, and United Healthcare. 

&#160;

In September 2020, CMS released final Medicare payment levels for inpatient hospital discharges for fiscal year 2021 (October 1, 2020 through September 30, 2021). The Final Rule for the IPPS update includes ICD-10 coding and confirms assignment of percutaneous Impella implantation to MS-DRG 215 for Other Heart Assist System Implant , and maintains bi-ventricular Impella (MS-DRG 1), ECpella (MS-DRG 3), and Impella hospital transfer / support (MS-DRG 268) for the receiving hospital. The Final Rule also set the relative weight for MS-DRG 215 equal to the average of the proposed FY2021 rate and FY2020 rate, an 11% reduction, instead of the proposed 24% reduction. In addition, CMS increased rates for MS-DRGs 1, 3, and 268 by 8%, 3%, and 5%, respectively. The Final Rule will be effective for the 12 months beginning on October 1, 2020 for all Medicare hospital inpatient discharges. 

In April 2021, the CMS released a draft of proposed Medicare payment levels for inpatient hospital discharges after October 1, 2021. The April 2021 proposed rule, or the Proposed Rule, for the IPPS update includes reassigning select ICD-10-PCS codes from MS-DRG 215 to additional cardiovascular related MS-DRGs to align clinical populations and better reflect hospital resources. For the sickest patients who utilize extensive resources, hospitals are eligible to receive additional outlier payments, which may collectively increase reimbursement in future years. The AHA and CMS have established a system of care around the utilization of percutaneous heart pumps. The history and creation of this dedicated payment system with Impella implant/explant, bi-ventricular, ECPella, and transfer reimbursement allow some of the most critically ill patients the potential to survive and achieve native heart recovery. As highlighted by CMS, the FDA has granted Emergency Use Authorizations (&#8220;EUAs&#8221;) to us for COVID-19. For the duration of the public health emergency, hospitals treating patients diagnosed with COVID-19 receive an additional 20 percent in reimbursement. The Proposed Rule for the IPPS is open for public comment until June 28, 2021. The final rulemaking may differ substantially from this proposal and will take effect for the year beginning October 1, 2021. 

In addition to payments to hospitals for procedures using our technology, Medicare makes separate payments to physicians for their professional services when they perform surgeries to implant, remove, replace or repair our devices or when they perform percutaneous insertion and removal of Impella devices. Physicians generally bill for such services using a coding system known as Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes. Physician services performed in connection with the implantation, removal or repositioning of our approved products are billed using a variety of CPT codes. Generally, Medicare payment levels for physician services are based on the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule and are revised annually by CMS. Physicians may choose not to use our products if reimbursement amounts do not justify the additional costs expended when employing our products.

In general, third-party reimbursement programs in the U.S. and abroad, whether government-funded or commercially insured, are developing a variety of increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs, including prospective reimbursement and capitation programs, group purchasing, reducing benefit coverage, requiring second opinions prior to major surgery, negotiating reductions to charges on patient bills, promoting healthier lifestyle initiatives and exploring more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. These types of cost containment programs, as well as legislative or regulatory changes to reimbursement policies, could limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for our medical devices. 

Government Regulation and Other Matters

Our products and facilities are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the FDA, European Union Member States competent authorities, and the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency, to confirm compliance with the various laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our products. We are also governed by federal, state, local, and international laws of general applicability, such as those regulating employee health and safety, and the protection of the environment. Overall, the amount and scope of domestic and foreign laws and regulations applicable to our business has increased over time. Compliance with these regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position to date, but new regulations or amendments to existing regulations to make them more stringent could have such an effect in the future. We cannot estimate the expenses we may incur to comply with potential new laws or changes to existing laws, or the other potential effects these laws may have on our business.

United States Regulation

In the U.S., the FDA has responsibility for regulating medical devices under the authority of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA. The FDA regulates design, development, testing, clinical studies, manufacturing, labeling, distribution, import, export, sale promotion, and record keeping for medical devices, and reporting of adverse events, recalls, or other field actions by manufacturers and users to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. Many of the devices that we develop, manufacture and market are in a category for which the FDA has implemented stringent clinical investigation and pre-market clearance or approval requirements. The process of obtaining FDA clearance or approval to market a product is resource intensive, lengthy, and costly. FDA review may involve delays that adversely affect the marketing and sale of our products. Some our products are pending regulatory clearance or approval to begin commercial sales in various markets. Ultimately, the FDA may not authorize the commercial release of a medical device if it determines the device is not safe and effective or does not meet other standards for clearance or approval. Additionally, even if a product is cleared or approved, the FDA may impose restrictions requiring postmarket testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effects of these products once commercialized. 

&#160;

The FDA has the authority to halt the distribution of certain medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order the repair, replacement, or refund of the costs of such devices, or preclude the importation of devices that are or appear to be violative. The FDA also conducts inspections to determine compliance with the QSR concerning the manufacturing and design of devices and medical device reporting regulations, recall regulations, clinical testing regulations, and other requirements. The FDA may withdraw product clearances or approvals due to failure to comply with regulatory standards, or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval, and require notification of health professionals and others with regard to medical devices that present unreasonable risks of harm to the public health. Additionally, the failure to comply with FDA or comparable regulatory standards or the discovery of previously unknown product problems could result in fines, delays, or suspensions of regulatory clearances or approvals, seizures, injunctions, recalls, refunds, civil money penalties, or criminal prosecution. Our compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review. Moreover, the FDA and several other U.S. agencies administer controls over the export of medical devices from the U.S. and the import of devices into the U.S., which could also subject us to sanctions for noncompliance. 

Premarket Regulation 

The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes (Class I, II or III) based on the statutory framework described in the FFDCA. Our Impella products are categorized as Class III devices. Class III devices are typically life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices, or new devices that have not been found to be substantially equivalent to legally marketed devices. Class III devices must generally receive PMA approval from the FDA before they can be marketed. 

The PMA approval pathway requires that the applicant demonstrate to the FDA&#8217;s satisfaction, based on valid scientific evidence, that there is a reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use. During the PMA process, the FDA examines detailed data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the device. This information includes design, development, manufacture, labeling, advertising, preclinical testing and clinical study data. Prior to approving a PMA, the FDA may conduct an inspection of the manufacturing facilities and the clinical sites where supporting studies were conducted. The facility inspection evaluates our compliance with QSR. An inspection of clinical sites evaluates compliance with good clinical practice standards, including, for studies conducted under an investigational device exemption, or IDE, that the studies meet the requirements of FDA&#8217;s IDE regulations. Typically, the FDA will convene an advisory panel meeting to review the data presented in the PMA. The panel&#8217;s recommendation is given substantial weight but is not binding on the FDA. Under a set of performance measures that the FDA has committed to achieving in return for the receipt of user fees from manufacturers, FDA attempts to review all PMAs not requiring an advisory panel meeting within 180 &#8220;FDA days&#8221; and review of a PMA application that does require an advisory panel meeting within 320 &#8220;FDA days.&#8221; The term &#8220;FDA days&#8221; excludes the time the applicant spends responding to FDA requests for additional information. While the FDA has approved PMA applications within the allotted time period, reviews can occur over a significantly longer period. 

Upon completion of its review, the FDA will either approve or deny the PMA. If the FDA&#8217;s evaluation is favorable, the PMA is approved, and the device may be marketed in the U.S. The FDA may approve a PMA with post-approval conditions such as postmarket collection of clinical data. Failure to comply with the conditions of approval can result in material adverse enforcement action, including the loss or withdrawal of the PMA approval. A PMA approval may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which a device may be marketed. The FDA interprets the FFDCA as prohibiting the promotion of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. After approval of a PMA, a new PMA or PMA supplement is required in the event of a significant modification to the device, the device labeling, or the manufacturing process. The FDA can initiate proceedings to withdraw a PMA approval for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial marketing.

See &#8220;Item 1. Business &#8211; Our Existing Products&#8221; for additional information regarding regulatory approvals on our Impella devices. We expect to make additional PMA supplement submissions for additional indications for use for our Impella devices in the future.

When clinical trials of a device are required in order to obtain FDA approval, the sponsor of the trial is generally required to file an IDE application before commencing the trials. The FDA reviews and must approve an IDE before a clinical study may begin in the U.S. In addition, the clinical study must be approved by an Institutional Review Board, or IRB, at each clinical site. The FDA, the IRB, or we may suspend a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including if information emerges suggesting that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. All clinical studies of investigational devices must be conducted in compliance with FDA requirements. Following the completion of a study, the data from the study must be collected, analyzed and presented in an appropriate submission to the FDA, either as a report submitted to the IDE file or in a marketing application such as a PMA. 

&#160;

In addition, certain medical devices can be approved by the FDA in the U.S. under a humanitarian device extension (&#8220; HDE &#8221;) rather than a PMA. In order for a device to be eligible for an HDE, there must be a qualifying target patient population of less than 8,000 patients per year for which there is no other comparable device available to treat the condition. The FDA must agree that a device meets these criteria before it can be approved under an HDE. FDA approval of an HDE also requires demonstration that the device is safe for its intended application, that it is potentially effective, and that the probable benefits outweigh the associated risks. If another device receives approval through the PMA process that addresses the same patient population as the HDE device, the HDE device may need to be withdrawn from the U.S. market. An approved HDE authorizes sales of the device to any hospital after review and approval by the hospital&#8217;s IRB. Proposed modifications to approved HDE devices, like modifications to approved PMA devices, require FDA approval through a new HDE application or an HDE supplement. 

The EUA authority allows the FDA to strengthen the public health protections against biological, chemical, radiological, and nuclear agents that may be used to harm the society. Under section 564 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the FDA may allow medical countermeasures to be used in an emergency to diagnose, treat or prevent serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions caused by such agents, when there are no adequate, approved and available alternatives. Section 564 permits the FDA to authorize the introduction into interstate commerce of a drug, device or biological product intended for use in an actual or potential emergency during the effective period of a declaration. EUA candidates include products and uses that are not approved, cleared or licensed under sections 505, 510(k) and 515 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or section 351 of the Public Health Act. The FDA may issue an EUA only if, after consultation with the Director of National Institute of health (&#8220;NIH&#8221;) and the Director of Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (&#8220;CDC&#8221;), the FDA concludes that the four statutory criteria for issuance (Serious or Life-Threatening Disease or Condition, Evidence of Effectiveness, Risk-Benefit Analysis, No Alternatives) have been met. The FDA assesses the sufficiency of the effectiveness data and the risk-benefit profile of each candidate product on a case-by-case basis. The FDA recommends that requests for medical devices under consideration for EUAs include clinical evidence data to support the proposed intended use, as necessary and appropriate. The FDA provides that an EUA will be in effect for the duration of the declaration under which it was issued, unless the EUA is revoked because the criteria of issuance are no longer met or revocation is appropriate to protect public health or safety. The FDA will periodically review the circumstances and appropriateness of an EUA, including circumstances that might warrant revocation of the EUA. Such circumstances may include significant adverse inspectional findings&#59; reports of adverse events linked to, or suspected of being caused by, the EUA product&#59; product failure&#59; product ineffectiveness&#59; and availability of a preferred product.

Postmarket Regulation 

The medical devices that we manufacture and distribute pursuant to regulatory clearances or approvals by the FDA and other countries&#8217; regulatory authorities are subject to continuing regulation by those agencies. The FDA reviews design, manufacturing, and distribution practices, labeling and record keeping, and manufacturers&#8217; required reports of adverse experience and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. Among other FDA requirements, we must comply with the FDA&#8217;s good manufacturing practice regulations for medical devices, known as the QSR. These regulations govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, testing, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation, and servicing of all finished medical devices intended for human use. We must also comply with Medical Device Reporting, or MDR requirements, which require us to report to the FDA any incident in any of our products that may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, including medical intervention to prevent a death or serious injury, or in which any of our products malfunctioned and, if such malfunction were to recur, would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Labeling, advertising, and promotional activities are subject to scrutiny by the FDA and, in certain circumstances, by the Federal Trade Commission. The FDA&#8217;s enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. We are subject to routine inspection by the FDA for compliance with the QSR and MDR requirements, as well as other applicable regulations. If the FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, and require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of harm to the public health. The FDA may also seek a judicial injunction enjoining certain violations of the FFDCA and imposing operating restrictions and assess civil or criminal fines and penalties against our officers, employees, or us. The FDA may also recommend criminal prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice. Conduct giving rise to civil or criminal penalties may also form the basis for private civil litigation by third-party payers or other persons allegedly harmed by our conduct. Regulatory authorities outside the U.S. enforce similar laws and regulations within their respective jurisdictions.

The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. If the FDA or another regulatory agency determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. 

&#160;

The FDA can require postmarket surveillance, or PMS, for significant risk devices, such as our medical devices, that require ongoing collection, analysis, and periodic submission to the FDA of clinical data during commercialization over a period of up to several years. The PMS data collection requirements are often burdensome and expensive. The failure to comply with the FDA&#8217;s regulations can result in enforcement action, including seizure of products, injunction, prosecution, civil fines and penalties, recall and/or suspension of FDA approval. 

The FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection, or CBP, administers controls over the import and export of medical devices into and out of the U.S. International sales of our medical devices that have not received FDA approval are therefore subject to FDA export requirements. The CBP imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of medical devices, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. 

Other Regulations

We are subject to additional laws and regulations that govern our business operations, products, and technologies, including:

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

federal, state, and foreign anti-kickback laws and regulations, which generally prohibit payments to anyone, including physicians, as an inducement to purchase or recommend a product&#59; 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

the Stark law, which prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to a provider that bills these programs for the provision of certain designated health services if the physician (or a member of the physician's immediate family) has a financial relationship with that provider&#59; 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

federal, state and foreign laws and regulations that protect the confidentiality of certain personal information, including patient health information, and restrict the use and disclosure of such information, in particular, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act in the U.S., and the European Union&#8217;s General Data Protection Regulation (&#8220;GDPR&#8221;) (as further described in &#8220;Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors&#8212;Risks Related to Intellectual Property, Privacy and Security&#8212;If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business&#8221;)&#59; 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires public disclosure of the financial relationships of. healthcare professionals and teaching hospitals in the U.S. with applicable manufacturers, including medical device, pharmaceutical, and biologics companies&#59; 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

the False Claims Act, which prohibits the submission of false or otherwise improper claims for payment to the United States government, including federally funded health care program, and health care fraud statutes that prohibit false statements and improper claims to any third-party payor&#59; and 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (&#8220;FCPA&#8221;), which can be used to prosecute United States companies for arrangements with foreign government officials or other parties, or for not keeping accurate financial records or maintaining adequate internal controls to prevent and detect arrangements with foreign government officials or other parties (as further described in &#8220;Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors&#8212;Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks&#8212;We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anticorruption laws, as well as export control laws, import and customs laws, trade and economic sanctions laws and other laws governing our operations&#8221;). 

##TABLE_END

Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal liability, significant fines or penalties, negative publicity, and material costs and expenses associated with investigation enforcement activities, and individual settlement agreements that impose a government monitor for a period of several years.

We are also subject to various local, state, federal, and international laws and regulations relating regarding environmental protection, hazardous substances and health and safety. These requirements govern, among other things, matters such as safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the handling, storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes and, if any, the associated cleanup of properties affected by discharges, releases or exposure to pollutants, air emissions, wastewater, and occupational and human health and safety. Specifically, the use of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances in connection with our research and development and manufacturing activities, such as the manufacture of our biomaterials, is subject to compliance with federal environmental regulations and by various state and local agencies. We believe we have been, and we are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations (including environmental laws and regulations). We further believe that we currently have no liabilities under such requirements that could reasonably be expected to materially harm our business, results of operations or financial condition.

&#160;

International Regulation 

Internationally, the approval and regulation of medical devices is subject to a variety of laws and regulation. In Europe, our products are subject to extensive regulatory requirements. Our Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0, Impella LD, Impella 5.5, Impella RP, and Impella AIC are all approved under CE Mark and are available for sale in the European Union and other markets that recognize CE Mark approval. The European Union requires that medical devices may only be placed on the market if they do not compromise safety and health when properly installed, maintained, and used in accordance with their intended purpose. National laws conforming to the European Union's legislation regulate our products under the medical devices regulatory system. Although the more variable national requirements under which medical devices were formerly regulated have been substantially replaced by the European Union Medical Devices Directive, individual nations can still impose unique requirements that may require supplemental submissions. The European Union medical device laws require manufacturers to declare that their products conform to the essential regulatory requirements after which the products may be placed on the market bearing the CE Mark. Manufacturers' quality systems for products in all but the lowest risk classification are also subject to certification and audit by an independent notified body. In Europe, particular emphasis is being placed on more sophisticated and faster procedures for the reporting of adverse events to the competent authorities. 

In May 2017, the European Union implemented a new regulatory requirement for medical devices under the Medical Device Regulation (&#8220;MDR&#8221;). The Medical Device Regulation became fully effective in fiscal year 2021 and introduced new requirements for many medical devices, including enhanced requirements for clinical evidence and documentation, increased focus on device identification and traceability, new definitions and registration of economic operators throughout the distribution chain, and additional postmarket surveillance and vigilance. Compliance with the Medical Device Regulation requires re-certification of many of our products to the enhanced standards.

In Japan, pre-market approval and clinical studies are required as is governmental pricing approval for medical devices. Our Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella AIC have regulatory approval and are available for sale in Japan. Clinical studies are subject to a stringent Japanese &#8220;Good Clinical Practices&#8221; standard. Approval time frames from the Japanese MHLW vary from simple notifications to review periods of one or more years, depending on the complexity and risk level of the device. In addition, importation of medical devices into Japan is subject to the &#8220;Good Import Practices&#8221; regulations. As with any highly regulated market, significant changes in the regulatory environment could adversely affect future sales. 

In many of the other foreign countries in which we market our products, we may be subject to regulations affecting, among other things:

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

product standards and specifications&#59; 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

packaging requirements&#59; 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

labeling requirements&#59; 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

marketing restrictions&#59; 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

product collection and disposal requirements&#59; 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

quality system requirements&#59; 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

import restrictions&#59; 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

tariffs&#59; 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

customs and duties&#59; and 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

tax requirements. 

##TABLE_END

&#160;

Many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in these countries are similar to those of the FDA. In some countries, the level of government regulation of medical devices is increasing, which can lengthen time to market and increase registration and approval costs. In many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed and considered eligible for reimbursement.

Health Care Initiatives

&#160;

Government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of health care costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness reviews, technology assessments, and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do business, including the U.S., Canada, Europe, and Asia. As a result of these changes, the marketplace has placed increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies. For example, government programs, private health care insurance, and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by restricting coverage and limiting the level of reimbursement for procedures or treatments, and some third-party payers require their pre-approval before new or innovative devices or therapies are utilized by patients. These various initiatives have created increased price sensitivity over medical products generally and may impact demand for our products and technologies.

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

The delivery of our products is subject to regulation by the department of Health and Human Services in the U.S. and comparable state and foreign agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care items and services. Foreign governments also impose regulations in connection with their health care reimbursement programs and the delivery of health care items and services. Reimbursement schedules regulate the amount the U.S. government will reimburse hospitals and doctors for the inpatient care of persons covered by Medicare. CMS may also review whether and/or under what circumstances a procedure or technology is reimbursable for Medicare beneficiaries. Changes in current reimbursement levels could have an adverse effect on market demand and our pricing flexibility.

&#160;

Health care cost containment efforts have also prompted domestic hospitals and other customers of medical device manufacturers to consolidate into larger purchasing groups to enhance purchasing power and this trend is expected to continue. The medical device industry has also experienced some consolidation, partly in order to offer a broader range of products to large purchasers. As a result, transactions with customers are larger, more complex, and could likely involve more long-term contracts than in the past. These larger customers, due to their enhanced purchasing power, may attempt to increase pressure on product pricing.

Seasonality 

Our quarterly net sales are influenced by many factors, including new product introductions, acquisitions, regulatory approvals, patient and physician holiday schedules, and other factors. Net sales in the first half of our most recent fiscal years represented 44%, 49%, and 47% of total fiscal year net sales for fiscal years 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our revenues in the first half of our fiscal years have historically generally represented a lower percentage of total annual revenues than second half revenues due to the seasonality of the U.S., European and Japanese markets, where summer vacation schedules normally result in fewer medical procedures for our products.

Human Capital

As of March 31, 2021, we had 1,725 full-time employees, including: 

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

371 in product engineering, research and development, clinical development and regulatory&#59; 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

686 in sales, clinical support, marketing, field service and related support, 538 of whom are in the U.S. and Canada, 92 of whom are in Europe and 56 of whom are in Asia&#59;

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

482 in manufacturing&#59; and 

##TABLE_END

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

186 in general and administration. 

##TABLE_END

&#160;

We understand that our success depends in large part on our ability to recruit, develop and retain a productive and engaged workforce. Accordingly, investing in our employees, focusing on safety, offering competitive compensation and benefits, promoting a diverse workforce, adopting forward thinking human capital management practices and community outreach are critical elements of our corporate strategy. 

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

Health, Safety and Wellness . As a medical device manufacturer that provides on-site support to hospitals, health and safety issues are fundamental considerations in our operations. We are committed to protecting our employees by working to implement safety practices and procedures and institute training initiatives. We monitor compliance on an ongoing basis with these Company protocols as well as federal, state, local and foreign regulations to which we are subject to. In particular, this includes Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, requirements and other similar statutory standards outside the U.S. Our training programs are focused on the particular risks that our employees deal with in our normal operations, including hazardous materials, emergency evacuation, ergonomics and biohazards. 

##TABLE_END

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

Competitive Compensation and Benefits . Our compensation program is designed to align employee compensation with our performance and to provide the proper incentives to attract, retain and motivate employees to achieve superior results. The structure of our compensation program aims to balance incentive earnings for both short-term and long-term performance. We believe that we provide employee wages that are competitive and consistent with employee positions, skill levels, experience, knowledge and geographic location. We engage internationally recognized external compensation and benefits consulting firms to evaluate the effectiveness of our executive compensation and benefit programs and to provide benchmarking independently. We are committed to providing comprehensive benefit options that allow our employees and their families to live healthier and more secure lives. Our benefits include various health insurance and wellness programs&#59; retirement and savings plans&#59; an employee stock purchase plan&#59; paid time off and family leave&#59; and other benefits. 

##TABLE_END

&#160;

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives . We value diversity as a strength because we feel a diverse workforce leads to innovative ideas and solutions that help us recover more hearts and save more lives. We are committed to building an environment where employees are encouraged to achieve their full potential. We continue to foster a vibrant and inclusive culture, where people are respected and feel a sense of belonging regardless of their race, nationality, gender, age, religion or sexual 

##TABLE_END

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160;

orientation. We have targeted recruitment programs for veterans and university students, including those of diverse backgrounds . 

##TABLE_END

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

Employee Development . We seek to offer opportunities for employee education, development and training with a goal of creating a culture of leadership and knowledge of our business and industry. We offer professional skills and leadership development programs to support the growth of our employees. Many of our training opportunities are embodied in our Code of Conduct, which emphasizes a strong commitment to educating our employees on their legal, ethical and labor-related obligations under applicable law and our own Company policies and procedures. Additionally, we offer tuition reimbursement for courses taken in pursuit of an undergraduate or graduate degree. 

##TABLE_END

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

Community Support . We provide opportunities for and actively encourage our employees to participate in corporate giving and volunteer opportunities in the communities in which we work. We are extremely proud of the generosity and dedication of our employees who contribute to the Abiomed Citizenship and Give Back Group, which supports local and national organizations in the United States aimed supporting heart health and U.S. veterans. We also participate in the Mentoring Veterans Program, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization co-founded by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, by helping military veterans network with industry mentors in the life sciences industries. 

##TABLE_END

&#160;

##TABLE_START &#160;

&#8226; 

Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic . Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, our priorities have been to support our clinician partners, protect the well-being of our employees, and maintain continuous access to our life-saving technologies while offering front-line in-hospital support. We and our employees have worked together to institute, and maintain ongoing compliance with, stringent safety protocols to ensure continued production in our U.S. and German facilities, such as through working shift adjustments to increase social distancing, requirements for the wearing of masks and personal protective gear and for physical distancing, on-site COVID testing for our employees in both Danvers, Massachusetts and Aachen, Germany, the placement of temperature-taking stations, increased sanitizing in between shifts and readily available hand sanitizing stations in order to maintain a safe working environment for our employees. Our proactive testing program has reduced exposure with early detection, reduced employee anxiety and enabled our manufacturing facilities to operate at full capacity in line with local social distancing requirements. For a discussion of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, including our employees, see &#8220;Part II, Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;COVID-19 Pandemic.&#8221; 

##TABLE_END

To assess and improve employee retention and engagement, we survey employees annually with the assistance of third-party consultants and take timely action to address key areas of employee concern. Our senior leadership team regularly engages with our employees to understand and identify potential opportunities for improvement. 

We routinely enter into contractual agreements with our employees, which typically include confidentiality and non-competition commitments. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have never experienced any employment-related work stoppages and we consider our employee relations to be good.

&#160;

&#160;

##TABLE_START 