 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

##TABLE_START ##TABLE_END

Overview 

AbbVie (1) is a global, research-based biopharmaceutical company. AbbVie uses its expertise, dedicated people and unique approach to innovation to develop and market advanced therapies that address some of the world&#8217;s most complex and serious diseases. 

On May 8, 2020, AbbVie completed the acquisition of Allergan plc (Allergan). The acquisition of Allergan creates a diversified biopharmaceutical company positioned for success with a comprehensive product portfolio that has leadership positions in key therapeutic areas of immunology, hematologic oncology, aesthetics, neuroscience, eye care and women's health. AbbVie's existing product portfolio and pipeline is enhanced with numerous Allergan assets and Allergan's product portfolio benefits from AbbVie's commercial strength, expertise and international infrastructure. See Note 5, "Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements&#8212;Acquisition of Allergan," to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Subsequent to the acquisition date, AbbVie's consolidated financial statements include the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of Allergan. 

AbbVie was incorporated in Delaware on April 10, 2012. On January 1, 2013, AbbVie became an independent, publicly-traded company as a result of the distribution by Abbott Laboratories (Abbott) of 100% of the outstanding common stock of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders. 

Impact of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) 

The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic continues to spread throughout the United States and around the world. In response to the growing public health crisis, AbbVie has partnered with global authorities to support the experimental use of multiple AbbVie assets to determine their efficacy in the treatment of COVID-19. AbbVie continues to closely manage manufacturing and supply chain resources around the world to help ensure that patients continue to receive an uninterrupted supply of their medicines. Clinical trial sites are being monitored locally to protect the safety of study participants, staff and employees. While the impact of COVID-19 on AbbVie's operations to date has not been material, AbbVie has experienced lower new patient starts across the therapeutic portfolio. AbbVie expects this matter could continue to negatively impact its results of operations throughout the duration of the outbreak. The extent to which COVID-19 may impact AbbVie's financial condition and results of operations remains uncertain. 

Segments 

AbbVie operates as a single global business segment dedicated to the research and development, manufacturing, commercialization and sale of innovative medicines and therapies. This operating structure enables the Chief Executive Officer, as chief operating decision maker (CODM), to allocate resources and assess business performance on a global basis in order to achieve established long-term strategic goals. Consistent with this structure, a global research and development and supply chain organization is responsible for the discovery, development, manufacturing and supply of products. Commercial efforts that coordinate the marketing, sales and distribution of these products are organized by geographic region or therapeutic area. All of these activities are supported by a global corporate administrative staff. The determination of a single business segment is consistent with the consolidated financial information regularly reviewed by the CODM for purposes of assessing performance, allocating resources and planning and forecasting future periods. See Note 16, "Segment and Geographic Area Information" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the sales information related to AbbVie's key products and geographies included under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 

_______________________________________________________________________________ 

(1) As used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the terms "AbbVie" or "the company" refer to AbbVie Inc., a Delaware corporation, or AbbVie Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires. 

##TABLE_START 

| &#160; 2020 Form 10-K 

##TABLE_END

Products 

AbbVie's portfolio of products includes a broad line of therapies that address some of the world's most complex and serious diseases. 

Immunology products. AbbVie maintains an extensive immunology portfolio across rheumatology, dermatology and gastroenterology. AbbVie's immunology products address unmet needs for patients with autoimmune diseases. These products are: 

Humira. Humira (adalimumab) is a biologic therapy administered as a subcutaneous injection. It is approved to treat the following autoimmune diseases in the United States, Canada and Mexico (collectively, North America) and in the European Union: 

##TABLE_START Condition &#160; Principal Markets Rheumatoid arthritis (moderate to severe) &#160; North America, European Union Psoriatic arthritis &#160; North America, European Union Ankylosing spondylitis &#160; North America, European Union Adult Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) &#160; North America, European Union Plaque psoriasis (moderate to severe chronic) &#160; North America, European Union Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (moderate to severe polyarticular) &#160; North America, European Union Ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe) &#160; North America, European Union Axial spondyloarthropathy &#160; European Union Pediatric Crohn's disease (moderate to severe) &#160; North America, European Union Hidradenitis suppurativa (moderate to severe) &#160; North America, European Union Pediatric enthesitis-related arthritis &#160; European Union Non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis North America, European Union Pediatric ulcerative colitis (moderate to severe) European Union Pediatric uveitis European Union ##TABLE_END

Humira is also approved in Japan for the treatment of intestinal Beh&#231;et's disease and pyoderma gangrenosum. 

Humira is sold in numerous other markets worldwide, including Japan, China, Brazil and Australia, and accounted for approximately 43% of AbbVie's total net revenues in 2020. 

Skyrizi. Skyrizi (risankizumab) is an interleukin-23 (IL-23) inhibitor that selectively blocks IL-23 by binding to its p19 subunit. It is a biologic therapy administered as a quarterly subcutaneous injection following an induction dose. Skyrizi is approved in the United States, Canada and the European Union and is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy. In Japan, Skyrizi is approved for the treatment of plaque psoriasis, generalized pustular psoriasis, erythrodermic psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis in adult patients who have an inadequate response to conventional therapies. 

Rinvoq . Rinvoq (upadacitinib) is an oral, once-daily selective and reversible JAK inhibitor and is approved in the United States, Canada, Japan and the European Union. Rinvoq is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Rinvoq is also approved in the European Union for the treatment of adult patients with active psoriatic arthritis and adult patients with active ankylosing spondylitis. Rinvoq may be used as monotherapy or in combination with methotrexate. Rinvoq is also indicated in Japan in patients with rheumatoid arthritis with inadequate response to conventional therapy (including inhibition of the progression of structural damage). 

##TABLE_START 2020 Form 10-K | &#160; 

##TABLE_END

Oncology products. AbbVie&#8217;s oncology products target some of the most complex and difficult-to-treat cancers. These products are: 

Imbruvica. Imbruvica (ibrutinib) is an oral, once-daily therapy that inhibits a protein called Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK). Imbruvica was one of the first medicines to receive a United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval after being granted a Breakthrough Therapy Designation and is one of the few therapies to receive four separate designations. Imbruvica currently is approved for the treatment of adult patients with: 

&#8226; Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/Small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) and CLL/SLL with 17p deletion; 

&#8226; Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) who have received at least one prior therapy*; 

&#8226; Waldenstr&#246;m&#8217;s macroglobulinemia (WM); 

&#8226; Marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) who require systemic therapy and have received at least one prior anti-CD20-based therapy*; and 

&#8226; Chronic graft versus host disease (cGVHD) after failure of one or more lines of systemic therapy. 

&#160;_______________________________________________________________________________ 

&#160;* Accelerated approval was granted for this indication based on overall response rate. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials. 

Venclexta/Venclyxto. Venclexta (venetoclax) is a BCL-2 inhibitor used to treat hematological malignancies. Venclexta is approved by the FDA for adults with CLL or SLL. In addition, Venclexta is approved in combination with azacitidine, or decitabine, or low-dose cytarabine to treat adults with newly-diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who are 75 years of age or older or have other medical conditions that prevent the use of standard chemotherapy. Venclyxto is approved in Europe for CLL in combination with obinutuzumab for patients with previously untreated CLL and in combination with rituximab in patients who have received at least one previous treatment. 

Aesthetics products. AbbVie&#8217;s Allergan Aesthetics portfolio consists of toxins and dermal fillers, plastics and regenerative medicine, body contouring, and skincare products, which hold market-leading positions in the U.S. and in key markets around the world. In 2020, U.S. sales comprised approximately two-thirds of total global sales. These products are: 

Botox Cosmetic. Botox Cosmetic is an acetylcholine release inhibitor and a neuromuscular blocking agent indicated for temporary improvement in the appearance of moderate to severe glabellar lines (frown lines between the eyebrows), moderate to severe crow's feet and forehead lines in adults. Having received its initial U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval in 2002, Botox Cosmetic is now approved for use in all major markets around the world and has become one of the world&#8217;s most recognized and iconic brands. 

Juvederm Collection. T he Juvederm Collection is a portfolio of hyaluronic acid-based dermal fillers with a variety of approved indications in the U.S. and in all other major markets around the world to treat volume loss in the cheeks, chin, lips and lower face. 

Other aesthetics. Other aesthetics products include, but are not limited to, Coolsculpting body contouring technology, Alloderm regenerative dermal tissue, Natrelle breast implants, the SkinMedica skincare line, and DiamondGlow. 

Neuroscience products. AbbVie&#8217;s neuroscience products address some of the most difficult-to-treat neurologic diseases. These products are: 

Botox Therapeutic. Botox Therapeutic (onabotulinumtoxinA injection) is a neuromuscular blocking agent that is injected into muscle tissue in treatment for the following indications in the United States: 

&#8226; For the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and frequency, in adults who have an inadequate response to or are intolerant of an anticholinergic medication. 

&#8226; For the treatment of urinary incontinence due to detrusor overactivity associated with a neurologic condition (e.g., spinal cord injury, multiple sclerosis) in adults who have an inadequate response to or are intolerant of an anticholinergic medication. 

&#8226; For the prophylaxis of headaches in adult patients with chronic migraine (&#8805; 15 days per month with headache lasting 4 hours a day or longer). 

##TABLE_START 

| &#160; 2020 Form 10-K 

##TABLE_END

&#8226; For the treatment of spasticity in patients 2 years of age and older. 

&#8226; For the treatment of adults with cervical dystonia to reduce the severity of abnormal head position and neck pain associated with cervical dystonia. 

&#8226; For the treatment of strabismus and blepharospasm associated with dystonia, including benign essential blepharospasm or VII nerve disorders in patients 12 years of age and older. 

&#8226; For the treatment of severe primary axillary hyperhidrosis that is inadequately managed with topical agents. Licenses around the world vary. 

&#8226; Focal spasticity associated with dynamic equinus foot deformity due to spasticity in ambulant pediatric cerebral palsy patients, two years of age or older. 

&#8226; Focal spasticity of the wrist and hand in adult post stroke patients. 

&#8226; Focal spasticity of the ankle and foot in adult post stroke patients. 

Vraylar. Vraylar (cariprazine) is a dopamine D3-preferring D3/D2 receptor partial agonist and a 5-HT1A receptor partial agonist. Its D3 binding profile may be linked to observed improvements in the negative symptoms of schizophrenia and to antidepressant effects in Bipolar I disorder. Vraylar is indicated for acute and maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adults, acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder in adults and acute treatment of depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder (bipolar depression) in adults. 

Duopa and Duodopa (carbidopa and levodopa). AbbVie's levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease is marketed as Duopa in the United States and as Duodopa outside of the United States. 

Ubrelvy. Ubrelvy (ubrogepant) is indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with or without aura in adults and is only commercialized in the United States. 

Eye care products. AbbVie&#8217;s eye care products address unmet needs and new approaches to help preserve and protect patients&#8217; vision. These products are: 

Lumigan/Ganfort. Lumigan (bimatoprost ophthalmic solution) 0.01% is a once daily, topical prostaglandin analog indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open angle glaucoma (OAG) or ocular hypertension (OHT). Ganfort is a once daily topical fixed combination of bimatoprost 0.03% and timolol 0.5% for the reduction of IOP in adult patients with OAG or OHT. Lumigan is sold in the United States and numerous markets around the world, while Ganfort is approved in the EU and some markets in South America, the Middle East, and Asia. 

Alphagan/Combigan. Alphagan (brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution) is an alpha-adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Combigan (brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution) is approved for reducing elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with glaucoma who require additional or adjunctive IOP-lowering therapy. Both Alphagan and Combigan are available for sale in the United States and numerous markets around the world. 

Restasis. Restasis is a calcineurin inhibitor immunosuppressant indicated to increase tear production in patients whose tear production is presumed to be suppressed due to ocular inflammation associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca. Restasis is approved in the United States and a number of other markets in South America, the Middle East, and Asia. 

Other eye care. Other eye care products include Xen, Durysta, Ozurdex and Refresh/Optive. 

Women's health products. AbbVie&#8217;s women's health products are: 

Lo Loestrin . Lo Loestrin Fe is an oral contraceptive. It is indicated for prevention of pregnancy with the lowest dose of estrogen with only 10mcg and is dispensed in a unique 24/2/2 regimen with a two-day hormone-free interval. It is marketed in the U.S. as Lo Loestrin Fe (norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol tablets, ethinyl estradiol tablets and ferrous fumarate tablets) and in select markets outside the U.S. as Lolo. 

Orilissa/Oriahnn. Orilissa (elagolix) is the first and only orally-administered, nonpeptide small molecule gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist specifically developed for women with moderate to severe endometriosis pain. The FDA approved Orilissa under priority review. It represents the first FDA-approved oral treatment for the management of moderate to severe pain associated with endometriosis in over a decade. Orilissa inhibits endogenous GnRH signaling by binding competitively to GnRH receptors in the pituitary gland. Administration results in 

##TABLE_START 2020 Form 10-K | &#160; 

##TABLE_END

dose-dependent suppression of luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone, leading to decreased blood concentrations of ovarian sex hormones, estradiol and progesterone. Outside the United States, Orilissa is also launched in Canada and Puerto Rico. Oriahnn (elagolix, estradiol, and norethindrone acetate capsules; elagolix capsules) is a combination prescription medicine used to control heavy menstrual bleeding related to uterine fibroids in women before menopause. 

Other women's health. Other women's health includes Liletta, a sterile, levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system indicated for prevention of pregnancy for up to six years. It is the only hormonal IUS (Intrauterine System) approved in the U.S. for up to six years of pregnancy prevention. 

Other key products. AbbVie&#8217;s other key products include, among other things, treatments for patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV), metabolic and hormone products that target a number of conditions, including exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and hypothyroidism, as well as endocrinology products for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids. These products are: 

Mavyret/Maviret. Mavyret (glecaprevir/pibrentasvir) is approved in the United States and European Union (Maviret) for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients (12 years and older or weighing at least 45 kilograms) with chronic HCV genotype 1-6 infection without cirrhosis and with compensated cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A). It is also indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients (12 years and older or weighing at least 45 kilograms) with HCV genotype 1 infection, who previously have been treated with a regimen containing an HCV NS5A inhibitor or an NS3/4A protease inhibitor, but not both. It is an 8-week, pan-genotypic treatment for patients without cirrhosis and following the EXPEDITION-8 study, also in patients with compensated cirrhosis who are new to treatment. 

Creon. Creon (pancrelipase) is a pancreatic enzyme therapy for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, a condition that occurs in patients with cystic fibrosis, chronic pancreatitis and several other conditions. 

Lupron. Lupron (leuprolide acetate), which is also marketed as Lucrin and Lupron Depot, is a product for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty and for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine fibroids. Lupron is approved for daily subcutaneous injection and one-month, three-month, four-month and six-month intramuscular injection. 

Linzess/Constella. Linzess (linaclotide) is a once-daily guanylate cyclase-C agonist used in adults to treat irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS&#8209;C) and chronic idiopathic constipation (CIC). The product is marketed as Linzess in the United States and as Constella outside of the United States. 

Synthroid. Synthroid (levothyroxine sodium tablets, USP) is used in the treatment of hypothyroidism. 

AbbVie has the rights to sell Creon and Synthroid only in the United States. AbbVie's commercial rights to the sale and distribution of Synagis outside of the United States will revert to AstraZeneca upon the expiry of the current agreement in 2021. 

Marketing, Sales and Distribution Capabilities 

AbbVie utilizes a combination of dedicated commercial resources, regional commercial resources and distributorships to market, sell and distribute its products worldwide. AbbVie directs its primary marketing efforts toward securing the prescription, or recommendation, of its brand of products by physicians, key opinion leaders and other health care providers. Managed care providers (for example, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit managers), hospitals and state and federal government agencies (for example, the United States Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Defense) are also important customers. AbbVie also markets directly to consumers themselves, although in the United States many of the company's products must be sold pursuant to a prescription. Outside of the United States, AbbVie focuses its promotional and market access efforts on key opinion leaders, payers, physicians and health systems. AbbVie also provides patient support programs closely related to its products. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic AbbVie has maintained its promotional activities with key stakeholders by leveraging digital engagement where permitted and in compliance with the locally applicable government guidance. 

AbbVie's products are generally sold worldwide directly to wholesalers, distributors, government agencies, health care facilities, specialty pharmacies and independent retailers from AbbVie-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Certain products (including aesthetic products and devices) are also sold directly to physicians and other licensed healthcare providers. Although AbbVie's business does not have significant seasonality, AbbVie's product revenues may be affected by end customer and retail buying patterns, fluctuations in wholesaler inventory levels and other factors. 

##TABLE_START 

| &#160; 2020 Form 10-K 

##TABLE_END

In the United States, AbbVie distributes pharmaceutical products principally through independent wholesale distributors, with some sales directly to retailers, pharmacies and patients. In 2020, three wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and AmerisourceBergen Corporation) accounted for substantially all of AbbVie's sales in the United States. No individual wholesaler accounted for greater than 38% of AbbVie's 2020 gross revenues in the United States. Outside the United States, AbbVie sells products primarily to customers or through distributors, depending on the market served. 

Certain products are co-marketed or co-promoted with other companies. AbbVie has no single customer that, if the customer were lost, would have a material adverse effect on the company's business. No material portion of AbbVie's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the government. Orders are generally filled on a current basis and order backlog is not material to AbbVie's business. 

Competition 

The markets for AbbVie's products are highly competitive. AbbVie competes with other research-based pharmaceuticals and biotechnology companies that discover, manufacture, market and sell proprietary pharmaceutical products, therapies and biologics. For example, Humira competes with anti-TNF products and other competitive products intended to treat a number of disease states and Mavyret/Maviret competes with other available HCV treatment options. In addition, in the past few years, a number of other companies have started to develop, have successfully developed and/or are currently marketing products that are being positioned as competitors to Botox. The search for technological innovations in pharmaceutical products is a significant aspect of competition. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price is also a competitive factor. In addition, the substitution of generic pharmaceutical products for branded pharmaceutical products creates competitive pressures on AbbVie's products that do not have patent protection. New products or treatments brought to market by AbbVie&#8217;s competitors could cause revenues for AbbVie&#8217;s products to decrease due to price reductions and sales volume decreases. 

Biosimilars. Competition for AbbVie&#8217;s biologic products is affected by the approval of follow-on biologics, also known as &#8220;biosimilars.&#8221; Biologics have added major therapeutic options for the treatment of many diseases, including some for which therapies were unavailable or inadequate. The cost of developing and producing biologic therapies is typically dramatically higher than for conventional (small molecule) medications, and many biologic medications are used for ongoing treatment of chronic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease, or for the treatment of previously untreatable cancer. Significant investments in biologics infrastructure and manufacturing are necessary to produce biologic products. 

Humira is now facing direct biosimilar competition in Europe and other countries, and AbbVie will continue to face competitive pressure from these biologics and from orally administered products. 

In the United States, the FDA regulates biologics under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the FFDCA), the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) and the regulations implementing such acts. The enactment of federal health care reform legislation in March 2010 provided a pathway for approval of biosimilars under the PHSA, but the approval process for, and science behind, biosimilars is complex. Approval by the FDA is dependent upon many factors, including a showing that the biosimilar is "highly similar" to the original product and has no clinically meaningful differences from the original product in terms of safety, purity and potency. The types of data that could ordinarily be required in an application to show similarity may include analytical data, bioequivalence studies and studies to demonstrate chemical similarity, animal studies (including toxicity studies) and clinical studies. 

Furthermore, the law provides that only a biosimilar product that is determined to be "interchangeable" will be considered by the FDA as substitutable for the original biologic product without the intervention of the health care provider who prescribed the original biologic product. To prove that a biosimilar product is interchangeable, the applicant must demonstrate that the product can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the original biologic product in any given patient, and if the product is administered more than once in a patient, that safety risks and potential for diminished efficacy of alternating or switching between the use of the interchangeable biosimilar biologic product and the original biologic product is no greater than the risk of using the original biologic product without switching. The law continues to be interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, its ultimate impact, implementation and meaning remains subject to uncertainty. 

Intellectual Property Protection and Regulatory Exclusivity 

Generally, upon approval, products may be entitled to certain kinds of exclusivity under applicable intellectual property and regulatory regimes. AbbVie&#8217;s intellectual property is materially valuable to the company, and AbbVie seeks patent protection, where available, in all significant markets and/or countries for each product in development. In the United States, 

##TABLE_START 2020 Form 10-K | &#160; 

##TABLE_END

the expiration date for patents is 20 years after the filing date. Given that patents relating to pharmaceutical products are often obtained early in the development process and given the amount of time needed to complete clinical trials and other development activities required for regulatory approval, the length of time between product launch and patent expiration is significantly less than 20 years. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act) permits a patent holder to seek a patent extension, commonly called a &#8220;patent term restoration,&#8221; for patents on products (or processes for making the product) regulated by the FFDCA. The length of the patent extension is roughly based on 50 percent of the period of time from the filing of an Investigational New Drug Application (NDA) for a compound to the submission of the NDA for such compound, plus 100 percent of the time period from NDA submission to regulatory approval. The extension, however, cannot exceed five years and the patent term remaining after regulatory approval cannot exceed 14 years. Biological products licensed under the PHSA are similarly eligible for terms of patent restoration. 

Pharmaceutical products may be entitled to other forms of legal or regulatory exclusivity upon approval. The scope, length, and requirements for each of these exclusivities vary both in the United States and in other jurisdictions. In the United States, if the FDA approves a drug product that contains an active ingredient not previously approved, the product is typically entitled to five years of non-patent regulatory exclusivity. Other products may be entitled to three years of exclusivity if approval was based on the FDA&#8217;s reliance on new clinical studies essential to approval submitted by the NDA applicant. If the NDA applicant studies the product for use by children, the FDA may grant pediatric exclusivity, which extends by 180 days all existing exclusivities (patent and regulatory) related to the product. For products that are either used to treat conditions that afflict a relatively small population or for which there is not a reasonable expectation that the research and development costs will be recovered, the FDA may designate the pharmaceutical as an orphan drug and grant it seven years of market exclusivity. Other types of regulatory exclusivity may also be available, such as Generating New Antibiotic Incentives Now (GAIN) exclusivity, which can provide new antibiotic or new antifungal drugs an additional 5 years of marketing exclusivity to be added to certain exclusivities already provided for by law. 

Applicable laws and regulations dictate the scope of any exclusivity to which a product or particular characteristics of a product is entitled upon approval in any particular country. In certain instances, regulatory exclusivity may offer protection where patent protection is no longer available or for a period of time in excess of patent protection. It is not possible to estimate for each product in development the total period and scope of exclusivity to which it may become entitled until regulatory approval is obtained or sometimes even later. However, given the length of time required to complete clinical development of a pharmaceutical product, the periods of exclusivity that might be achieved in any individual case would not be expected to exceed a minimum of three years and a maximum of 14 years. These estimates do not consider other factors, such as the difficulty of recreating the manufacturing process for a particular product or other proprietary knowledge that may delay the introduction of a generic or other follow-on product after the expiration of applicable patent and other regulatory exclusivity periods. 

Biologics may be entitled to exclusivity under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, which was passed on March 23, 2010 as Title VII to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The law provides a pathway for approval of biosimilars following the expiration of 12 years of regulatory exclusivity for the innovator biologic and a potential additional 180 day-extension term for conducting pediatric studies. Biologics are also eligible for orphan drug exclusivity, as discussed above. The law also includes an extensive process for the innovator biologic and biosimilar manufacturer to litigate patent infringement, validity, and enforceability. The European Union has also created a pathway for approval of biosimilars and has published guidelines for approval of certain biosimilar products. The more complex nature of biologics and biosimilar products has led to close regulatory scrutiny over follow-on biosimilar products, which can reduce the effect of biosimilars on sales of the innovator biologic as compared to the sales erosion caused by generic versions of small molecule pharmaceutical products. 

AbbVie owns or has licensed rights to a substantial number of patents and patent applications. AbbVie licenses or owns a patent portfolio of thousands of patent families, each of which includes United States patent applications and/or issued patents and may also contain the non-United States counterparts to these patents and applications. 

These patents and applications, including various patents that expire during the period 2021 to the late 2030s, in aggregate are believed to be of material importance in the operation of AbbVie&#8217;s business. However, AbbVie believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or related group of patents, licenses, or trademarks), except for those related to adalimumab (which is sold under the trademark Humira), are material in relation to the company&#8217;s business as a whole. The United States composition of matter (that is, compound) patent covering adalimumab expired in December 2016, and the equivalent European Union patent expired in October 2018 in the majority of European Union countries. In the United States, non-composition of matter patents covering adalimumab expire no earlier than 2022. AbbVie has entered into settlement and license agreements with several adalimumab biosimilar manufactures. Under the agreements, the license in the United States will begin in 2023 and the license in Europe began in 2018. 

##TABLE_START 

| &#160; 2020 Form 10-K 

##TABLE_END

In addition, the following patents, licenses, and trademarks are significant: those related to ibrutinib (which is sold under the trademark Imbruvica) and those related to risankizumab (which is sold under the trademark Skyrizi). The United States composition of matter patent covering ibrutinib is expected to expire in 2027. The United States composition of matter patent covering risankizumab is expected to expire in 2033. 

AbbVie may rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets to protect its technology. AbbVie seeks to protect its technology and product candidates, in part, by confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors, contractors, and collaborators. These agreements may be breached and AbbVie may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, AbbVie&#8217;s trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that AbbVie&#8217;s employees, consultants, advisors, contractors, and collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work for the company, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. 

Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements 

In addition to its independent efforts to develop and market products, AbbVie enters into arrangements such as acquisitions, option-to-acquire agreements, licensing arrangements, option-to-license arrangements, strategic alliances, co-promotion arrangements, co-development and co-marketing agreements, and joint ventures. The acquisitions and option-to-acquire agreements typically include, among other terms and conditions, non-refundable purchase price payments or option fees, option exercise payments, milestones or earn-outs, and other customary terms and obligations. The licensing and other arrangements typically include, among other terms and conditions, non-refundable upfront license fees, option fees and option exercise payments, milestone payments and royalty and/or profit sharing obligations. See Note 5, "Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements&#8212;Other Licensing &#38; Acquisitions Activity," to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." 

Third Party Agreements 

AbbVie has agreements with third parties for process development, product distribution, analytical services and manufacturing of certain products. AbbVie procures certain products and services from a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, a single supply source. In addition, AbbVie has agreements with third parties for active pharmaceutical ingredient and product manufacturing, formulation and development services, fill, finish and packaging services, transportation and distribution and logistics services for certain products. AbbVie does not believe that these manufacturing related agreements are material because AbbVie's business is not substantially dependent on any individual agreement. In most cases, AbbVie maintains alternate supply relationships that it can utilize without undue disruption of its manufacturing processes if a third party fails to perform its contractual obligations. AbbVie also maintains sufficient inventory of product to minimize the impact of any supply disruption. 

AbbVie is also party to certain collaborations and other arrangements, as discussed in Note 5, "Licensing, Acquisitions and Other Arrangements&#8212;Other Licensing &#38; Acquisitions Activity," to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." 

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials 

AbbVie purchases, in the ordinary course of business, raw materials and supplies essential to its operations from numerous suppliers around the world. In addition, certain medical devices and components necessary for the manufacture of AbbVie products are provided by unaffiliated third party suppliers. Other than the Lupron near-term supply issue which has impacted availability of certain formulations, AbbVie has not experienced any recent significant availability problems or supply shortages that impacted fulfillment of product demand. 

Research and Development Activities 

AbbVie makes a significant investment in research and development and has numerous compounds in clinical development, including potential treatments for complex, life-threatening diseases. AbbVie's ability to discover and develop new compounds is enhanced by the company's use of integrated discovery and development project teams, which include chemists, biologists, physicians and pharmacologists who work on the same compounds as a team. AbbVie also partners with third parties, such as biotechnology companies, other pharmaceutical companies and academic institutions to identify and prioritize promising new treatments that complement and enhance AbbVie&#8217;s existing portfolio. AbbVie also supplements its research and development efforts with acquisitions. 

##TABLE_START 2020 Form 10-K | &#160; 

##TABLE_END

The research and development process generally begins with discovery research which focuses on the identification of a molecule that has a desired effect against a given disease. If preclinical testing of an identified compound proves successful, the compound moves into clinical development which generally includes the following phases: 

&#8226; Phase 1&#8212;involves the first human tests in a small number of healthy volunteers or patients to assess safety, tolerability and potential dosing. 

&#8226; Phase 2&#8212;tests the drug's efficacy against the disease in a relatively small group of patients. 

&#8226; Phase 3&#8212;tests a drug that demonstrates favorable results in the earlier phases in a significantly larger patient population to further demonstrate efficacy and safety based on regulatory criteria. 

The clinical trials from all of the development phases provide the data required to prepare and submit an NDA, a Biological License Application (BLA) or other submission for regulatory approval to the FDA or similar government agencies outside the United States. The specific requirements (e.g., scope of clinical trials) for obtaining regulatory approval vary across different countries and geographic regions. 

The research and development process from discovery through a new drug launch typically takes 8 to 12 years and can be even longer. The research and development of new pharmaceutical products has a significant amount of inherent uncertainty. There is no guarantee when, or if, a molecule will receive the regulatory approval required to launch a new drug or indication. 

In addition to the development of new products and new formulations, research and development projects also may include Phase 4 trials, sometimes called post-marketing studies. For such projects, clinical trials are designed and conducted to collect additional data regarding, among other parameters, the benefits and risks of an approved drug. 

Regulation&#8212;Discovery and Clinical Development 

United States. Securing approval to market a new pharmaceutical product in the United States requires substantial effort and financial resources and takes several years to complete. The applicant must complete preclinical tests and submit protocols to the FDA before commencing clinical trials. Clinical trials are intended to establish the safety and efficacy of the pharmaceutical product and typically are conducted in sequential phases, although the phases may overlap or be combined. If the required clinical testing is successful, the results are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA or BLA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. The FDA reviews an NDA or BLA to determine whether a product is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its manufacturing is compliant with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP). 

Even if an NDA or a BLA receives approval, the applicant must comply with post-approval requirements. For example, holders of an approval must report adverse reactions, provide updated safety and efficacy information and comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional materials and activities. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval, and certain changes to the manufacturing procedures and finished product must be submitted and approved by the FDA prior to implementation. The FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP, which imposes extensive procedural and record keeping requirements. In addition, as a condition of approval, the FDA may require post-marketing testing and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product's safety or efficacy after commercialization, which may require additional clinical trials, patient registries, observational data or additional work on chemistry, manufacturing and controls. Any post-approval regulatory obligations, and the cost of complying with such obligations, could expand in the future. Further, the FDA continues to regulate product labeling, and prohibits the promotion of products for unapproved or &#8220;off-label&#8221; uses along with other labeling restrictions. 

##TABLE_START 

| &#160; 2020 Form 10-K 

##TABLE_END

Outside the United States. AbbVie is subject to similar regulatory requirements outside the United States for approval and marketing of pharmaceutical products. AbbVie must obtain approval of a clinical trial application or product from applicable supervising regulatory authorities before it can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in target markets. The approval requirements and process for each country can vary, and the time required to obtain approval may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval in the United States. For example, AbbVie may submit marketing authorizations in the European Union under either a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure is mandatory for the approval of biotechnology products and many pharmaceutical products and provides for a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. Under the centralized procedure, a single marketing authorization application is submitted to the European Medicines Agency (EMA). After the agency evaluates the application, it makes a recommendation to the European Commission, which then makes the final determination on whether to approve the application. The decentralized procedure provides for mutual recognition of individual national approval decisions and is available for products that are not subject to the centralized procedure. 

In Japan, applications for approval of a new product are made through the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA). Japan-specific trials and/or bridging studies to demonstrate that the non-Japanese clinical data applies to Japanese patients may be required. After completing a comprehensive review, the PMDA reports to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, which then approves or denies the application. 

Similarly, applications for a new product in China are submitted to the Center for Drug Evaluation (CDE) of the National Medical Products Administration (NMPA) for technical review and approval of a product for marketing in China. Clinical data in Chinese subjects are required to support approval in China, requiring the inclusion of China in global pivotal studies, or a separate China/Asian clinical trial. 

The regulatory process in many emerging markets continues to evolve. Many emerging markets, including those in Asia, generally require regulatory approval to have been obtained in a large developed market (such as the United States or Europe) before the country will begin or complete its regulatory review process. Similar to the requirements in Japan and China, certain countries (notably South Korea, Taiwan and Russia) also require that local clinical studies be conducted in order to support regulatory approval in the country. 

The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and product licensing also vary. In addition, post-approval regulatory obligations such as adverse event reporting and cGMP compliance generally apply and may vary by country. For example, after a marketing authorization has been granted in the European Union, periodic safety reports must be submitted and other pharmacovigilance measures may be required (such as Risk Management Plans). 

Regulation&#8212;Commercialization, Distribution and Manufacturing 

The manufacture, marketing, sale, promotion and distribution of AbbVie's products are subject to comprehensive government regulation. Government regulation by various national, regional, federal, state and local agencies, both in the United States and other countries, addresses (among other matters) inspection of, and controls over, research and laboratory procedures, clinical investigations, product approvals and manufacturing, labeling, packaging, marketing and promotion, pricing and reimbursement, sampling, distribution, quality control, post-marketing surveillance, record keeping, storage and disposal practices. AbbVie's operations are also affected by trade regulations in many countries that limit the import of raw materials and finished products and by laws and regulations that seek to prevent corruption and bribery in the marketplace (including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act, which provide guidance on corporate interactions with government officials) and require safeguards for the protection of personal data. In addition, AbbVie is subject to laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including state and federal anti-kickback and false claims laws in the United States. Prescription drug manufacturers such as AbbVie are also subject to taxes, as well as application, product, user and other fees. 

Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and materially affects AbbVie's business. Among other effects, health care regulations substantially increase the time, difficulty and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining approval to market newly developed and existing products. AbbVie expects compliance with these regulations to continue to require significant technical expertise and capital investment to ensure compliance. Failure to comply can delay the release of a new product or result in regulatory and enforcement actions, the seizure or recall of a product, the suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for a product's production and sale and other civil or criminal sanctions, including fines and penalties. 

In addition to regulatory initiatives, AbbVie's business can be affected by ongoing studies of the utilization, safety, efficacy and outcomes of health care products and their components that are regularly conducted by industry participants, government agencies and others. These studies can lead to updates to the data regarding utilization, safety and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of, or limitations on, marketing of such products domestically or worldwide, and may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of their use. 

##TABLE_START 2020 Form 10-K | &#160; 

##TABLE_END

Access to human health care products continues to be a subject of oversight, investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies and private organizations in the United States and other countries. A major focus is cost containment. Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being made in the private sector, notably by health care payers and providers, which have instituted various cost reduction and containment measures. AbbVie expects insurers and providers to continue attempts to reduce the cost of health care products. Outside the United States, many countries control the price of health care products directly or indirectly, through reimbursement, payment, pricing, coverage limitations, or compulsory licensing. Political and budgetary pressures in the United States and in other countries may also heighten the scope and severity of pricing pressures on AbbVie's products for the foreseeable future. 

United States. Specifically, U.S. federal laws require pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay certain statutorily-prescribed rebates to state Medicaid programs on prescription drugs reimbursed under state Medicaid plans, and the efforts by states to seek additional rebates affect AbbVie's business. Similarly, the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, as a prerequisite to participation in Medicaid and other federal health care programs, requires that manufacturers extend additional discounts on pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies, including the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense and Public Health Service entities and institutions. In addition, recent legislative changes would require similarly discounted prices to be offered to TRICARE program beneficiaries. The Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 also established the 340B drug discount program, which requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to provide products at reduced prices to various designated health care entities and facilities. 

In the United States, most states also have generic substitution legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's generic version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under Medicare or Medicaid and has implemented a prospective payment system (PPS) for services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home and home health settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care facility to a fixed reimbursement based on the diagnosis and/or procedure rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures for many health care products. Medicare reimburses Part B drugs based on average sales price plus a certain percentage to account for physician administration costs, which have been reduced in the hospital outpatient setting. Medicare enters into contracts with private plans to negotiate prices for most patient-administered medicine delivered under Part D. 

Under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (together, the Affordable Care Act), AbbVie pays a fee related to its pharmaceuticals sales to government programs. In addition, AbbVie provides a discount of 50% for branded prescription drugs sold to patients who fall into the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or "donut hole." 

The Affordable Care Act also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which require manufacturers of drugs and biologics covered under Medicare and Medicaid to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for subsequent public disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level in the United States, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring disclosure of interactions with health care professionals. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties. 

AbbVie expects debate to continue during 2021 at all government levels worldwide over the marketing, availability, method of delivery and payment for health care products and services. AbbVie believes that future legislation and regulation in the markets it serves could affect access to health care products and services, increase rebates, reduce prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services, change health care delivery systems, create new fees and obligations for the pharmaceuticals industry, or require additional reporting and disclosure. It is not possible to predict the extent to which AbbVie or the health care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above. 

European Union. The European Union has adopted directives and other legislation governing labeling, advertising, distribution, supply, pharmacovigilance and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Such legislation provides mandatory standards throughout the European Union and permits member states to supplement these standards with additional regulations. European governments also regulate pharmaceutical product prices through their control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of such products to consumers. As a result, patients are unlikely to use a pharmaceutical product that is not reimbursed by the government. In many European countries, the government either regulates the pricing of a new product at launch or subsequent to launch through direct price controls or reference pricing. In recent years, many countries have also imposed new or additional cost containment measures on pharmaceutical products. Differences between national pricing regimes create price differentials within the European Union that can lead to significant parallel trade in pharmaceutical products. 

##TABLE_START 

| &#160; 2020 Form 10-K 

##TABLE_END

Most governments also promote generic substitution by mandating or permitting a pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's generic version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed and by permitting or mandating that health care professionals prescribe generic versions in certain circumstances. Many governments are also following a similar path for biosimilar therapies. In addition, governments use reimbursement lists to limit the pharmaceutical products that are eligible for reimbursement by national health care systems. 

Japan. In Japan, the National Health Insurance system maintains a Drug Price List specifying which pharmaceutical products are eligible for reimbursement, and the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare sets the prices of the products on this list. The government generally introduces price cut rounds every other year and also mandates price decreases for specific products. New products judged innovative or useful, that are indicated for pediatric use, or that target orphan or small population diseases, however, may be eligible for a pricing premium. The government has also promoted the use of generics, where available. 

Emerging Markets. Many emerging markets take steps to reduce pharmaceutical product prices, in some cases through direct price controls and in others through the promotion of generic/biosimilar alternatives to branded pharmaceuticals. 

Since AbbVie markets its products worldwide, certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines must also meet other local regulatory requirements. Certain additional risks are inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency exchange rates, limitations on participation in local enterprises, expropriation, nationalization and other governmental action. 

Regulation &#8211; Medical Devices 

Medical devices are subject to regulation by the FDA, state agencies and foreign government health authorities. FDA regulations, as well as various U.S. federal and state laws, govern the development, clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, record keeping and marketing of medical device products agencies in the United States. AbbVie&#8217;s medical device product candidates, including AbbVie&#8217;s breast implants, must undergo rigorous clinical testing and an extensive government regulatory clearance or approval process prior to sale in the United States and other countries. The lengthy process of clinical development and submissions for clearance or approval, and the continuing need for compliance with applicable laws and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial resources. Regulatory clearance or approval, when and if obtained, may be limited in scope, and may significantly limit the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed. Cleared or approved products and their manufacturers are subject to ongoing review, and discovery of previously unknown problems with products may result in restrictions on their manufacture, sale, and/or use or require their withdrawal from the market. 

United States . AbbVie&#8217;s medical device products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device AbbVie markets in the United States must have a 510(k) clearance or a Premarket Approval Application (PMA) in accordance with the FFDCA and its implementing regulations. The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes, depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of controls that are needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. Devices deemed to pose a lower risk are placed in either Class I or Class II, and devices deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices, or a device deemed to be not substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device, are placed in Class III. In general, a Class III device cannot be marketed in the United States unless the FDA approves the device after submission of a PMA, and any changes to the device subsequent to initial FDA approval must also be reviewed and approved by the FDA. The majority of AbbVie&#8217;s medical device products, including AbbVie&#8217;s breast implants, are regulated as Class III medical devices. A Class III device may have significant additional obligations imposed in its conditions of approval, and the time in which it takes to obtain approval can be long. Compliance with regulatory requirements is assured through periodic, unannounced facility inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, and these inspections may include the manufacturing facilities of AbbVie&#8217;s subcontractors or other third-party manufacturers. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: warning letters or untitled letters; fines, injunctions and civil penalties; recall or seizure of AbbVie&#8217; products; operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; refusing AbbVie&#8217; request for 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new products; withdrawing 510(k) clearance or PMA approvals that are already granted; and criminal prosecution. 

A clinical trial is almost always required to support a PMA application and is sometimes required for a 510(k) premarket notification. Clinical trials generally require submission of an application for an investigational device exemption (IDE), which must be supported by appropriate data, such as animal and laboratory testing results, showing that it is safe to test the device in humans and that the testing protocol is scientifically sound. A study sponsor must obtain approval for its IDE from the FDA, and it must also obtain approval of its study from the Institutional Review Board (IRB) overseeing the trial. The results of clinical testing may not be sufficient to obtain approval of the investigational device. 

##TABLE_START 2020 Form 10-K | &#160; 

##TABLE_END

Once a device is approved, the manufacture and distribution of the device remains subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including Quality System Regulation requirements, which involve design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process. Medical device manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments and list their manufactured devices with the FDA and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with regulatory requirements. Manufacturers must also report to the FDA if their devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that could likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, or if the manufacturer conducts a field correction or product recall or removal to reduce a risk to health posed by a device or to remedy a violation of the FFDCA that may present a health risk. Further, the FDA continues to regulate device labeling, and prohibits the promotion of products for unapproved or &#8220;off-label&#8221; uses along with other labeling restrictions. 

European Union. Medical device products that are marketed in the European Union must comply with the requirements of the Medical Device Regulation (the MDR), which will come into effect in May 2021. The MDR provides for regulatory oversight with respect to the design, manufacture, clinical trials, labeling and adverse event reporting for medical devices to ensure that medical devices marketed in the European Union are safe and effective for their intended uses. Medical devices that comply with the MDR are entitled to bear a Conformit&#233; Europ&#233;enne marking evidencing such compliance and may be marketed in the European Union. Failure to comply with these domestic and international regulatory requirements could affect AbbVie&#8217;s ability to market and sell AbbVie&#8217;s products in these countries. 

Environmental Matters 

AbbVie believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection. Regulations under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing operations. AbbVie's capital expenditures for pollution control in 2020 were approximately $6 million and operating expenditures were approximately $34 million. In 2021, capital expenditures for pollution control are estimated to be approximately $9 million and operating expenditures are estimated to be approximately $36 million. 

Abbott was identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in investigations and/or remediations at several locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Some of these locations were transferred to AbbVie in connection with the separation and distribution, and AbbVie has become a party to these investigations and remediations. Abbott was also engaged in remediation at several other sites, some of which have been transferred to AbbVie in connection with the separation and distribution, in cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency or similar agencies. While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the final costs related to those investigations and remediation activities, AbbVie believes that such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations. 

Employees 

AbbVie employed approximately 47,000 employees in over 70 countries as of January 31, 2021. Outside the United States, some of AbbVie's employees are represented by unions or works councils. AbbVie believes that it has good relations with its employees. 

Human Capital Management 

Attracting, retaining and providing meaningful growth and development opportunities to AbbVie's employees is critical to the company's success in making a remarkable impact on people&#8217;s lives around the world. AbbVie leverages numerous resources to identify and enhance strategic and leadership capability, foster employee engagement and create a culture where diverse talent is productive and engaged. AbbVie invests in its employees through competitive compensation, benefits and employee support programs and offers best-in-class development and leadership opportunities. AbbVie has developed a deep talent base through ongoing investment in functional and leadership training and by sourcing world-class external talent, ensuring a sustainable talent pipeline. AbbVie continuously cultivates and enhances its working culture and embraces equality, diversity and inclusion as fundamental to the company's mission. 

##TABLE_START 

| &#160; 2020 Form 10-K 

##TABLE_END

Attracting and Developing Talent. Attracting and developing high-performing talent is essential to AbbVie&#8217;s continued success. AbbVie implements detailed talent attraction strategies, with an emphasis on STEM skill sets, a diverse talent base and other critical skillsets, including drug discovery, clinical development, market access, and business development. AbbVie also invests in competitive compensation and benefits programs. In addition to offering a comprehensive suite of benefits ranging from medical and dental coverage to retirement, disability and life insurance programs, AbbVie also provides health promotion programs, mental health awareness campaigns and employee assistance programs in several countries, financial wellness support, on-site health screenings and immunizations in several countries and on-site fitness and rehabilitation centers. In addition, the AbbVie Employee Assistance Fund (a part of the AbbVie Foundation) supports two programs for global employees: the AbbVie Possibilities Scholarship for children of employees, which is an annual merit-based scholarship for use at accredited colleges, universities or vocational-technical schools; and the Employee Relief Program, which is financial assistance to support short term needs of employees when faced with large-scale disasters (e.g. a hurricane), individual disasters (e.g. a home fire) or financial hardship (e.g. the death of a spouse). Finally, AbbVie empowers managers and their teams with tools, tips and guidelines on effectively managing workloads, managing teams from a distance and supporting flexible work practices. 

New AbbVie employees are given a tailored onboarding experience for faster integration and to support performance. AbbVie's mentorship program allows employees to self-nominate as mentors or mentees and facilitates meaningful relationships supporting employees&#8217; career and development goals. 

AbbVie also provides structured, broad-based development opportunities, focusing on high-performance skills and leadership training. AbbVie's talent philosophy holds leaders accountable for building a high-performing organization, and the company provides development opportunities to all levels of leadership. AbbVie's Learn, Develop, Perform program offers year-long, self-directed leadership education, supplemented with tools and resources, and leverages leaders as role models and teachers. In addition, the foundation to AbbVie's leadership pipeline is the company's Professional Development Programs, which attract graduates, postgraduates and post-doctoral talent to participate in formal development programs lasting up to three years, with the objective of strengthening functional and leadership capabilities. AbbVie also recently introduced additional development support to senior leaders who are managing increased integration and operational complexity following the transformational acquisition of Allergan. 

Culture. AbbVie&#8217;s shared values of transforming lives, acting with integrity, driving innovation, embracing diversity and inclusion, and serving the community form the core of the company's culture. AbbVie articulates the behaviors associated with these values in the Ways We Work, a core set of working behaviors that emphasize how the company achieves results is equally as important as achieving them. The Ways We Work are designed to ensure that every AbbVie employee is aware of the company's cultural expectations. AbbVie integrates the Ways We Work into all talent processes, forming the basis for assessing performance, prioritizing development, and ultimately rewarding employees. AbbVie believes it culture creates strong engagement, which is measured regularly through a confidential, third party all-employee survey, and this engagement supports AbbVie&#8217;s mission of making a remarkable impact on people&#8217;s lives. 

Equity, Equality, Diversity &#38; Inclusion (EED&#38;I). A cornerstone of AbbVie&#8217;s human capital management approach is to prioritize fostering an inclusive and diverse workforce. In 2019, AbbVie adopted a five-year Equality, Diversity &#38; Inclusion roadmap that defines key global focus areas, objectives and associated initiatives, and includes implementation plans organized by business function and geography. AbbVie&#8217;s senior leaders have adopted formal goals aligned with executing this strategy. Over the past year, AbbVie's board of directors has prioritized oversight of AbbVie's response to the U.S. racial justice movement, including overseeing internal programs designed to ensure that AbbVie is attracting, retaining and developing diverse talent. Through June 2020, women represented 49 percent of management positions globally and in the United States, 33 percent of AbbVie's workforce was comprised of members of historically underrepresented populations, an increase from 2019. Further, AbbVie is committed to pay equity and conducts pay equity analyses annually. A critical component of AbbVie's strategy is to instill an inclusive mindset in all AbbVie leaders and employees, so the company can realize the full value of a diverse workforce from recruitment through retirement. AbbVie recently launched a new toolkit for people who manage others to reinforce the importance of EED&#38;I to the business, educate leaders on inclusive recruiting practices and modeling inclusive behavior, and encourage participation in the company's inclusive culture learning opportunities. AbbVie's Employee Resource Groups also help the company nurture an inclusive culture by building community, hosting awareness events and providing leadership and career opportunities. In 2020, AbbVie reiterated its commitment to racial equality and social justice by appointing two additional senior level positions to drive change and awareness company-wide and taking deliberate steps to ensure AbbVie leads by example in promoting racial equity, as further described on the company's website at: https://www.abbvie.com/our-company/our-principles/our-commitment-to-racial-justice.html. 

##TABLE_START 2020 Form 10-K | &#160; 

##TABLE_END

COVID-19 Health and Safety. AbbVie has effectively prioritized the health and safety of its employees during the COVID-19 pandemic, while continuing to drive strong business performance. AbbVie also implemented, among other things, temporary office and facility closures and establishment of new safety and cleaning protocols and procedures; regular communication regarding the effect of the pandemic on AbbVie's business and employees; establishment of physical distancing procedures, modification of workspaces, and provision of personal protective equipment and cleaning supplies for employees; temperature screening at all company locations; a variety of testing resources including on-site and at-home testing and COVID case management programs; and remote working accommodations and related services to support employees&#8217; needs for flexibility. In addition, COVID-19 is a covered event under the AbbVie Employee Assistance Fund's Employee Relief Program, entitling eligible AbbVie employees and their families to financial assistance to pay for mortgage/rent, utilities, food, childcare and medical expenses not covered by insurance. AbbVie also provided paid leave and other support and accommodations to the company's employees with relevant medical, pharmaceutical, R&#38;D, science, public health and public safety skills, knowledge, training and experience who desired or were requested or mandated to serve as volunteers during the pandemic. Lastly, AbbVie&#8217;s commitment to employees was evidenced by no workforce reductions and no salary reductions associated with COVID-19 . 

Internet Information 

Copies of AbbVie's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through AbbVie's investor relations website ( www.abbvieinvestor.com ) as soon as reasonably practicable after AbbVie electronically files the material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 

AbbVie's corporate governance guidelines, outline of directorship qualifications, code of business conduct and the charters of AbbVie's audit committee, compensation committee, nominations and governance committee and public policy committee are all available on AbbVie's investor relations website ( www.abbvieinvestor.com ). 

