 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

Market risk is the potential loss arising from fluctuations in market rates and prices. Our market risk exposures primarily include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk 

We transact business in many different foreign currencies and may be exposed to financial market risk resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, with a heightened risk for volatility in the future due to potential impacts of COVID-19 on global financial markets. Revenues and related expenses generated from our international operations are generally denominated in their respective local currencies. Primary currencies include euros, British pounds, Australian dollars, South Korean won, Chinese yuan, and Swedish krona. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions will result in reduced revenues, operating expenses, net income, and cash flows from our international operations. Similarly, our revenues, operating expenses, net income, and cash flows will increase for our international operations if the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies. Since we have significant international sales, but incur the majority of our costs in the United States, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, may have an asymmetric and disproportional impact on our business. We monitor currency volatility throughout the year. 

To mitigate our foreign currency risk resulting from our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings and our foreign currency risk related to functional currency-equivalent cash flows resulting from our intercompany transactions, we periodically enter into currency derivative contracts, principally forward contracts. These forward contracts generally have a maturity of less than one year. The counterparties for our currency derivative contracts are large and reputable commercial or investment banks. 

The fair values of our foreign currency contracts are estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period. 

We do not hold or purchase any foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes. 

For a detailed discussion of our accounting policies for our foreign currency forward contracts, see Note 2 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Hedges (&#8220;Cash Flow Hedges&#8221;) and Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Not Designated as Hedges 

Refer to Note 10 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for disclosures regarding our Cash Flow Hedges and foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedges. 

In the absence of hedging activities for the year ended December 31, 2020, a hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10% would have resulted in a theoretical decline of our net income of approximately $191 million. This sensitivity analysis assumes a parallel adverse shift of all foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar; however, all foreign currency exchange rates do not always move in this manner and actual results may differ materially. 

Interest Rate Risk 

Our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio, as our outstanding debt is all at fixed rates. Our investment portfolio consists primarily of money market funds and government securities with high credit quality and short average maturities. Because short-term securities mature relatively quickly and must be reinvested at the then-current market rates, interest income on a portfolio consisting of cash, cash equivalents, or short-term securities is more subject to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer-term securities. Conversely, the fair value of such a portfolio is less sensitive to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer-term securities. At December 31, 2020, our $8.6 billion of cash and cash equivalents was comprised primarily of money market funds. 

As of December 31, 2020, based on the composition of our investment portfolio and recent actions by central banks around the world, including the interest rate cuts by the U.S. Federal Reserve, we anticipate investment yields may remain low, which would continue to negatively impact our future interest income. Such impact is not expected to be material to the Company&#8217;s liquidity. 

